# MTech-Project
### Analysis the functionalities of self-driving car using line follower, computer vision and artificial intelligence
Problem: A driverless autonomous car has shown great success in every domain whether it is the safety of human life or driving the car without having any obstacles. However, analyzing and implementation the functionalities remain an open challenge. Features such as road lane detection, surrounding object detection, environmental sound detection, and classification have some loopholes- inappropriate for real-time analysis, time-consuming, high computation cost, etc.
Methodology: The existing methodologies such as canny edge detector, to detect the road lane are inappropriate for curve lane detection and real-time response. Other existing approaches such as RCNN, sliding windows technique have high computation costs, time consumption, etc. The hypothesis of this work is to incorporate computer vision, artificial intelligence, and a robotic approach to address these loopholes. The hypothesis of this work also initiates to include new functionality to the proposed system
Outcomes: Keeping the above hypothesis in mind, the thesis achieved the following objectives: -1) It detects the road lane using a line follower. A line follower technique finds the lane in the proposed system. Arduino is used to controlling and processing the whole system and, a motor driver drives the motor and, a neural network learns the machine and predicts the output.2) It classifies and localizes all the objects in front of a car using YOLO and helps in decision making.3) It classifies road obstacles using a convolution neural network. 4) It classifies the different environmental sounds detected by the sensors using K Nearest Neighbor. Finally, a performance comparison is done in terms of accuracy between the existing methodologies and the proposed method.
